KYIV, Ukraine — For weeks, more than 100 foreign genetic parents of babies born to surrogate mothers in Ukraine have been waiting nervously, prevented by Ukraine’s rigid coronavirus restrictions from entering the country to pick up their newborns.
WASHINGTON — The head of the Justice Department’s criminal division will step down, the department said on Wednesday, after a nearly two-year tenure focused primarily on the opioid crisis and marked by the handling of a politically fraught referral of a whistle-blower complaint about President Trump’s dealings with Ukraine.
MOSCOW — President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine has won an important vote of confidence in his promised anti-corruption efforts as the International Monetary Fund has approved a multibillion-dollar lending program for the country.
MOSCOW — Rain-swollen rivers inundated towns, breached dams and stranded villagers in western Ukraine on Wednesday, in what officials called the region’s worst flooding in more than a decade — with the response this time complicated by the coronavirus epidemic.
AMSTERDAM — The Dutch government is taking Russia to the European Court of Human Rights over the downing nearly six years ago of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over eastern Ukraine.
The Dutch foreign minister said the Netherlands was taking Russia to the European Court of Human Rights for the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over Ukraine in 2014, killing 298 people.
MOSCOW — Three years into a grinding war in eastern Ukraine, the Trump administration, in a sharp break with Obama-era policy, proposed providing the Ukrainian army with potent American weapons, Javelin anti-tank missiles, to aid its struggle with Russian-backed separatists.
WASHINGTON — The House Judiciary Committee staff initially drew up 10 articles of impeachment against President Trump last year, alleging a wide range of high crimes and misdemeanors before the case was whittled down to his interactions with Ukraine, according to a book to be published next week.
MOSCOW — A nearly 12-hour standoff in Ukraine between the police and an armed hostage-taker who demanded, among other things, that the country’s president publicly endorse a documentary about animal abuse ended with the man’s capture on Tuesday.
A man with an automatic weapon seized a city bus in Lutsk, Ukraine, and took about 20 people hostage in the town of Lutsk, the police said.
KYIV, Ukraine — Tears streamed down Yevhenia Troyan’s face as her flight took off from Northern Cyprus, one of the odd corners of Europe where Ukrainian surrogacy agencies have set up shop.
MOSCOW — Maria Kolesnikova, a prominent opposition leader in Belarus who vanished on Monday in what her supporters said was a kidnapping by security agents, reappeared overnight at her country’s southern border with Ukraine.
VINNYTSIA, Ukraine — Thousands of Hasidic pilgrims who set out to celebrate the Jewish New Year at the grave in Ukraine of a revered rabbi started heading home on Friday, after being prevented from entering from Belarus due to coronavirus travel restrictions.
ZHDANOVICHI, Belarus — Members of the Wagner Group, a shadowy Russian mercenary force linked to an associate of President Vladimir V. Putin, have left their traces around the world. They fought in support of pro-Russian separatists in Eastern Ukraine; helped tilt Syria’s civil war in favor of President Bashar al-Assad and fought on the side of a Kremlin-backed warlord in Libya.
VINNYTSIA, Ukraine — They sang. They danced. They slumped in exhaustion on their luggage. For a second night in a row, hundreds of Hasidic Jewish pilgrims remained outdoors along a road between checkpoints on the border between Ukraine and Belarus on Tuesday, stranded by coronavirus travel restrictions.
A year ago, the world read a record of a phone call in which President Trump pressured Ukraine’s government to provide dirt on his political rival, Joe Biden. The transcript of that call, along with other evidence, made clear the president and his associates asked officials in Kyiv to deliver on Mr. Trump’s political interests in exchange for American military aid needed to defend Ukraine. At the end of last year, the president was impeached for that abuse of power.
WASHINGTON — President Trump nominated on Wednesday a onetime aide to one of his top congressional allies to serve as the inspector general of the intelligence community, succeeding a former official who played a role in revealing the Ukraine whistle-blower complaint that prompted impeachment proceedings and was later fired.
An election-year investigation by Senate Republicans into corruption allegations against Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic presidential nominee, and his son, Hunter, involving Ukraine found no evidence of improper influence or wrongdoing by the former vice president, bringing to a close a highly politicized inquiry they hoped would tarnish President Trump’s rival.
VINNYTSIA, Ukraine — A wildfire burning out of control in the war zone in eastern Ukraine is setting off land mines in a buffer area between government forces and Russian-backed separatists, complicating the already dangerous work of fire crews facing hot, dry and windy conditions.
Alexander Vindman — war hero, European affairs expert, lieutenant colonel in the Army — had lofty dreams of serving the United States. But a call he heard between President Trump and Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelensky, gave him pause. Little more than a year after taking a job at the White House, Colonel Vindman testified before Congress regarding the Ukraine scandal, and was a key witness in the impeachment inquiry into Mr. Trump.
The Justice Department on Monday unsealed charges accusing six Russian military intelligence officers of an aggressive worldwide hacking campaign that caused mass disruption and cost billions of dollars by attacking targets like a French presidential election, the electricity grid in Ukraine and the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics.
Dubious stories about George Soros, Ukraine and vote-by-mail have spread widely on social media this year, and we may just be warming up.
BORSHCHIV, Ukraine — The roadside cafe is called Borscht, advertised with a gigantic beetroot red sign, leaving little doubt what people around here like to eat.
WASHINGTON — As the scandal over President Trump’s dealings with Ukraine unfolded in Washington last fall and prompted his impeachment, public corruption prosecutors in the Justice Department were stewing.
KHOMUTYNSI, Ukraine — Valery Kravchuk, a seasoned mushroom hunter, pushed aside some dead leaves to reveal his prize: a beautiful blusher, so called because it turns pink when pinched.
MOSCOW — Finally free of the shadow of President Trump, the president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, is looking to put relations with the United States back on a sound footing with the incoming administration of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.
Conventional cinematic dystopian futures almost always compensate for their bleakness with nifty gadgets or, at the very least, incredibly fast and dangerous cars chasing one another. Not “Atlantis,” Ukraine’s official entry for the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar this year. Written, directed and shot by Valentyn Vasyanovych, the movie is an especially economical, even ruthless exercise in what could be called “slow cinema,” with no shiny widgets in sight.
Conventional cinematic dystopian futures almost always compensate for their bleakness with nifty gadgets or, at the very least, incredibly fast and dangerous cars chasing one another. Not “Atlantis,” Ukraine’s official entry for the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar this year. Written, directed and shot by Valentyn Vasyanovych, the movie is an especially economical, even ruthless exercise in what could be called “slow cinema,” with no shiny widgets in sight.
KYIV, Ukraine — After a revolution seven years ago, Ukrainians discovered that their ousted president had used public money to build himself a gigantic palace with a private zoo, a golf course and a garage full of antique cars.
Lev Parnas, the Florida businessman who teamed up with Rudolph W. Giuliani to unearth damaging information in Ukraine about former President Donald J. Trump’s political rivals, faced new accusations on Thursday that he duped investors in a start-up company.
In the final months of the Trump administration, senior Justice Department officials repeatedly sought to block federal prosecutors in Manhattan from taking a crucial step in their investigation into Rudolph W. Giuliani’s dealings in Ukraine, delaying a search warrant for some of Mr. Giuliani’s electronic records, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
When Simon Winchester takes on a big subject, he takes on a big subject. His new book, “Land: How the Hunger for Ownership Shaped the Modern World,” travels through centuries and to places like Ukraine, New Zealand, Scotland, the United States and elsewhere. On this week’s podcast, he talks about the history of private land ownership and a few of the many aspects of this history that caught his attention.
MOSCOW — The United States placed sanctions Friday on a Ukrainian business tycoon seen as the most powerful figure in the country outside of the government, signaling an aggressive new approach by the Biden administration to dealing with corruption in Ukraine.
MOSCOW — A court in Ukraine on Wednesday rejected an extradition request for an American who served in the country’s right-wing paramilitary units, dealing a blow to United States law enforcement agencies seeking to clamp down on Americans traveling to Ukraine to get battle experience with far-right militias there.
First Ukraine got caught up in the geopolitics of vaccine distribution between Russia and the West, and struggled to get hold of any doses. Now that it has them, Ukraine faces a new challenge: finding enough people who are willing to be vaccinated.
Ukraine’s capital will become the latest European city to go into lockdown, with strict three-week measures being introduced for Kyiv on Saturday as vaccinations failed to prevent a third wave of coronavirus infections.
MOSCOW — The war in eastern Ukraine, which has been on a low simmer for months, drawing little international attention, has escalated sharply in recent days, according to statements on Tuesday from the Ukrainian and Russian governments.
BRUSSELS — The United States and NATO, anxious about a major Russian troop buildup on Ukraine’s border, signaled strong support for the Kyiv government on Tuesday.
Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary general, expressed concern over Russia’s increasing military presence along the border with Ukraine, calling it “unexplained and unjustified.”
WASHINGTON — The Russian military buildup at the Ukraine border and in Crimea could provide enough forces for a limited military incursion, the C.I.A. director, William J. Burns, told senators on Wednesday as he and other senior officials outlined a range of threats facing the United States.
MOSCOW — Russia’s Defense Ministry ordered a partial pullback of troops from the border with Ukraine on Thursday, signaling a possible de-escalation in a military standoff that had raised alarm that a new war in Europe could be looming.
MARIUPOL, Ukraine — There are the booms that echo again, and parents know to tell their children they are only fireworks. There are the drones the separatists started flying behind the lines at night, dropping land mines. There are the fresh trenches the Ukrainians can see their enemy digging, the increase in sniper fire pinning them inside their own.
WASHINGTON — Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken will travel to Kyiv next week, a clear signal of the Biden administration’s support for Ukraine’s government against threats from Russia.
Two years ago, Rudolph W. Giuliani finally got one thing he had been seeking in Ukraine: The Trump administration removed the U.S. ambassador there, a woman Mr. Giuliani believed had been obstructing his efforts to dig up dirt on the Biden family.
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine warned of a possible war with Russia in an address to citizens on Tuesday evening. He directed comments to President Vladimir V. Putin and called for international support.
Federal investigators on Wednesday seized cellphones and computers from Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City who became President Donald J. Trump’s personal lawyer, stepping up a criminal investigation into Mr. Giuliani’s dealings in Ukraine, three people with knowledge of the investigation said.
KYIV, Ukraine — The Russian president went up to the brink — and then, with the eyes of the world upon him, stepped back from it.
ISTANBUL — The spiritual leader of Eastern Orthodox Christians worldwide recognized the independence of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine in a four-hour ceremony in Istanbul on Sunday, formalizing a split with the Russian church to which it had been tied for more than four centuries.
On Jan. 5, some 150,000 people lined up in front of the St. Sophia Cathedral in Ukraine’s capital, Kiev. They came to see a single document called a tomos, issued a few days before by the ecumenical patriarch of Constantinople, Bartholomew. There, on a piece of parchment, written in ornate Greek, English and Ukrainian, were words that the Ukrainian Orthodox Church had dreamed about for centuries: The document made the Ukrainian Church autocephalous, meaning it is now fully independent from Moscow.
“DAU,” the sprawling interactive art project by the filmmaker Ilya Khrzhanovsky, was supposed to have its big moment this week, opening in Paris after a trail of delays and cancellations stretching from Ukraine to Berlin.
KIEV, Ukraine — Former President Viktor F. Yanukovych committed treason by inviting Russia to invade Ukraine and reverse a pro-Western revolution that ousted him from power, a court in Kiev ruled on Thursday, sentencing Mr. Yanukovych to 13 years in prison.
On the thawing March morning he died, Denis Voronenkov stood on Shevchenko Boulevard, a broad poplar-lined street in central Kiev named after Ukraine’s national poet, his eyes glued to his phone. The 45-year-old former Russian lawmaker and security agent was promoting an interview he had given to a local news site about the life he left behind in Moscow months earlier. Given his past in Russia’s notoriously tight-lipped security services, it was particularly treasonous of him to open his mouth, while the sheer symbolism of his desertion gave his proclamations eminence. “The system is killing people,” he told the journalist, “and the reverse evolution makes the intelligent and worthy either stay silent or flee. I am not the first and I am not the last who tried to gnaw out their place in the sun in Russia.”
WASHINGTON — Federal prosecutors in recent weeks have been interviewing witnesses about the flow of foreign money to three powerful law and lobbying firms that Paul Manafort recruited seven years ago to help improve the image of the Russia-aligned president of Ukraine, people familiar with the questioning said.
BOUND BROOK, N.J. — While residents of Ukraine’s capital, Kiev, laid flowers and candles on the square where protesters died in a popular uprising five years ago, the country’s president was in New York on Wednesday to commemorate the anniversary.
ALEXANDRIA, Va. — Paul Manafort, the political consultant and Trump presidential campaign chairman whose lucrative work in Ukraine and ties to well-connected Russians made him a target of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was sentenced on Thursday to nearly four years in prison in the financial fraud case that left his grand lifestyle and power-broker reputation in ruins.
KIEV, Ukraine — Before he decided to run for the presidency of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky played a president in a television series called “Servant of the People,” about a schoolteacher whose speech about corruption goes viral on YouTube and propels him to office.
Campaigning for Ukraine’s presidential election had just begun to heat up when the authorities announced they had thwarted a Russian plot to use Facebook to undermine the vote.
KIEV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian presidential race took a surreal turn on Sunday when what was supposed to be a debate between the two candidates featured President Petro O. Poroshenko discussing Ukraine’s future with an empty lectern bearing the name of his rival, a comedian.
WASHINGTON — An American lobbyist was sentenced Friday to three years of probation and a $5,000 fine for failing to register as a foreign agent for a Russia-friendly political party in Ukraine and for helping a Ukrainian billionaire illegally purchase tickets to President Trump’s inauguration.
WASHINGTON — Gregory B. Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration, was arraigned on Friday and pleaded not guilty to charges that he lied to the Justice Department and withheld information about work he did for the government of Ukraine.
WASHINGTON — In an indictment that seized the attention of the capital’s K Street lobbying corridor, Gregory B. Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration, was charged on Thursday with lying to the Justice Department and concealing information about work he did in 2012 for the government of Ukraine.
KIEV, Ukraine — A young television comic and novice candidate trounced Ukraine’s political elite in the first round of the presidential election, official results showed Monday — a stinging rebuke by an electorate tired of the lack of change in a country dominated by rich businessmen.
The measles outbreak that led to a state of emergency in New York’s Rockland County began far away: in an annual Hasidic pilgrimage from Israel to Ukraine.
KIEV, Ukraine — The comedian Volodymyr Zelensky won a landslide victory in Ukraine’s presidential election, according to official results with nearly all of the votes counted, making a comic actor with no experience in government or the military the commander in chief of a country that has been at war with Russian proxies for over five years.
DNIPRO, Ukraine — When Volodymyr Zelensky, the Jewish comedian recently elected the president of Ukraine, announced that he was running, the chief rabbi for the eastern Ukrainian region where Mr. Zelensky grew up was shocked by the hostile reaction.
KRYVYI RIH, Ukraine — As a university student in Kryvyi Rih, a gritty industrial city in eastern Ukraine, the comedian who is now the strong favorite to win Ukraine’s presidential election showed an early grasp of what it takes to succeed when politics merge with entertainment: a flair for grabbing attention and scripting the narrative without getting tripped up by details.
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia signed a decree on Wednesday simplifying the citizenship process for people in separatist-held regions of Ukraine, issuing a challenge to Ukraine’s president-elect that threatens to intensify the five-year war in the country’s east.
MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Thursday defended his decision to fast-track Russian citizenship for some residents of separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, a move widely seen as possibly prolonging the war there and testing the mettle of the country’s novice president-elect.
Vasyl Petrovych Holoborodko was a high school teacher whose rant against government corruption went viral and catapulted him into the race for president of Ukraine, which he miraculously won. 
WASHINGTON — In the deep leather chairs of Manhattan’s luxurious Grand Havana Room late on Aug. 2, 2016, Paul Manafort, the Trump campaign chairman, met with an associate who has been linked to Russian intelligence and discussed a plan to give Moscow control over part of eastern Ukraine.
WASHINGTON — Rudolph W. Giuliani, President Trump’s personal lawyer, is encouraging Ukraine to wade further into sensitive political issues in the United States, seeking to push the incoming government in Kiev to press ahead with investigations that he hopes will benefit Mr. Trump.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo discussed different views on Venezuela, Ukraine, Iran and U.S. election meddling with Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, at a news conference on Tuesday.
WASHINGTON — It was a foreign policy role Joseph R. Biden Jr. enthusiastically embraced during his vice presidency: browbeating Ukraine’s notoriously corrupt government to clean up its act. And one of his most memorable performances came on a trip to Kiev in December 2015, when he threatened to withhold $1 billion in United States loan guarantees if Ukraine’s leaders did not dismiss the country’s top prosecutor, who had been accused of turning a blind eye to corruption in his own office and among the political elite.
MOSCOW — Before he was elected president of Ukraine last month, Volodymyr Zelensky played a president in a comedy show on television. The owner of that television station, Ihor Kolomoisky, returned on Thursday from self-imposed exile, raising fears that he may now ask the real president to return some favors.
VINNYTSIA, Ukraine — On her first day of service as a commissioned officer of the Ukrainian military, Lt. Valeria Sikal reported for duty at her base and received an unusual order.
KIEV, Ukraine — Minutes after taking office on Monday, Ukraine’s new president, Volodymyr Zelensky, announced a snap parliamentary election that he hopes will consolidate his power and help him deliver on campaign promises to end endemic corruption and a prolonged separatist conflict.
A wispy cloud hovers over a meadow in western Ukraine. A bare tree stands below it, and what lies below that — what we can’t see — is at the heart of the image.
MOSCOW — Five years after a missile shot down an airliner over a war zone in Ukraine, killing all 298 people on board, international prosecutors on Wednesday indicted three men with ties to Russian military and intelligence agencies, and implicated — but did not charge — a senior aide to President Vladimir V. Putin.
BRUSSELS — In a decision opposed by most former Soviet-bloc countries, the parliament of the Council of Europe voted on Tuesday to end Russia’s suspension, which began with the annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014.
In Vladimir Putin’s Kremlin, lying — willfully, methodically, shamelessly — is the default response to any accusations of wrongdoing. Russia did not meddle in American elections. Accusations of systematic Olympic doping are malicious foreign inventions. The Novichok nerve agent killers in Salisbury, England, were there only to admire the cathedral’s spire. Russia has nothing to do with the secessionists in eastern Ukraine.
An international investigative team on Wednesday charged four people, including three with ties to Russian intelligence, with shooting down a Malaysia Airlines jet over Ukraine in 2014, killing 298 people.
International prosecutors in the Netherlands said on Wednesday that four men would face murder charges in the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over Ukraine five years ago.
WASHINGTON — More than two years ago, Pavel Fuks, a wealthy Ukrainian-Russian developer looking for ways to attract more investment from the United States to his hometown, Kharkiv, Ukraine, enlisted an especially well-connected American to help him: Rudolph W. Giuliani.
MOSCOW — Ukraine’s new president, Volodymyr Zelensky, was on track Monday to become the country’s first post-Soviet chief to enjoy an outright parliamentary majority — potentially a watershed moment for an untested leader who has vowed to take on endemic corruption.
KIEV, Ukraine — Voters across the country took another leap of faith on Sunday, handing yet more power to their new and untested leader. In April, the former comedian Volodymyr Zelensky went from playing an accidental president on television to unexpectedly becoming the country’s real-life president. In this weekend’s parliamentary elections, he led his party to another stunning victory.
MOSCOW — In a move likely to further ratchet up tensions between Moscow and Kiev, Ukraine seized a Russian tanker that it said was used during a naval confrontation last year to block passage through a disputed waterway linked to the Black Sea, Ukraine’s security service said on Thursday.
MOSCOW — Andrei Chernikov, an information-technology specialist from western Ukraine, was near the end of Yuval Noah Harari’s book “21 Lessons for the 21st Century” when he stumbled onto something that concerned him directly — a description in the “Post-Truth” chapter of how Russia’s government in 2014 attempted to hide its invasion of Ukraine and annexation of Crimea.
WASHINGTON — One of two charges against Gregory B. Craig, a former Obama White House official accused of lying to the Justice Department about his work at a prominent law firm on behalf of Ukraine’s government, was dismissed on Tuesday, days before his criminal trial was set to begin.
WASHINGTON — Not long before Christmas 2012, Paul Manafort, then a foreign lobbyist, congratulated Gregory B. Craig, a well-known Washington lawyer, on the release of a report that Mr. Manafort had commissioned to help Ukraine’s pro-Russian president polish his image in the West.
KIEV, Ukraine — He’s a quick-witted politician who understands the power of television, has broad public support at home and, perhaps not so important, sometimes takes off his shirt in public.
WASHINGTON — Months after backing out of a trip to Ukraine amid criticism that he was mixing partisan politics with foreign policy, Rudolph W. Giuliani, President Trump’s personal lawyer, has renewed his push for the Ukrainian government to pursue investigations into political opponents of Mr. Trump.
WASHINGTON — Gregory B. Craig, one of Washington’s most powerful Democratic lawyers, testified in his own defense in a federal felony trial on Wednesday, denying passionately that he had deceived federal investigators six years ago about whether he had aided a public relations campaign by Ukraine’s president to repair his battered image in the United States.
WASHINGTON — On the opening day of a criminal trial testing the sweep of a federal law that regulates lobbying for foreign clients, defense lawyers argued that a prominent Washington lawyer accused of lying about his work for Ukraine’s government was in fact the victim of overzealous prosecutors.
WASHINGTON — The White House on Thursday dropped its resistance to releasing a package of military assistance to Ukraine, amid a bipartisan outcry from lawmakers and an open investigation into whether President Trump and his allies were distorting the United States foreign aid program for their own political benefit.
MOSCOW — After five years of grinding conflict stoked by Russia in eastern Ukraine, the two bitterly estranged neighbors swapped dozens of prisoners on Saturday in a long-anticipated exchange that Ukraine’s new president hailed as “the first step to end the war.”
WASHINGTON — The White House delayed a package of military assistance to the new government in Ukraine, and has yet to schedule a White House meeting for its new president. After abruptly pulling the previous American ambassador out of Kiev when conservatives questioned her political loyalty, President Trump has yet to nominate a successor.
For the second time in three years, Ukraine, the former Soviet republic between Russia and the West, has been caught in the glare of American news cameras because of an American political drama. In 2016, the spotlight was trained on the campaign chairman for Donald J. Trump, then the Republican candidate for president, and the aide’s  undisclosed business with a pro-Russia political party. 
WASHINGTON — Kurt D. Volker, the State Department’s special envoy for Ukraine who got caught in the middle of the pressure campaign by President Trump and his lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, to find damaging information about Democrats, abruptly resigned his post on Friday.
KIEV, Ukraine — A delegation from the International Monetary Fund left Ukraine Friday without announcing a lending agreement, dealing President Volodymyr Zelensky a setback in his efforts to win a quick endorsement from foreign donors for his clean government pledges.
Ukraine’s president, in his first public comments on the phone call that led to an impeachment inquiry into President Trump, said Wednesday that the call was “normal,” that “nobody pushed me,” and that he did not want to become entangled in American elections.
LVIV, Ukraine — Oleg Sentsov, a 43-year-old writer and filmmaker recently released from a Russian prison camp in the arctic, should, by the blood-and-soil logic of the Kremlin, have been an easy recruit to President Vladimir V. Putin’s cause of aggrieved Russian nationalism.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi spoke to reporters after new details emerged from a whistle-blower’s complaint against President Trump related to his phone call with Ukraine’s leader.
President Trump was responding to reports that he had directed his staff to freeze military aid to Ukraine before he pressed the country’s president to investigate unsubstantiated corruption allegations involving former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
Trump is accused of pressing Ukraine to investigate his political rivals.
KIEV, Ukraine — When two elderly women started shouting at President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday, interrupting questions from journalists about his summer call to President Trump with complaints about a local mayor, the young Ukrainian leader made clear where his priorities lay.
WASHINGTON — Federal prosecutors in Manhattan are investigating whether President Trump’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani broke lobbying laws in his dealings in Ukraine, according to two people familiar with the inquiry.
WASHINGTON — When Rudolph W. Giuliani set out to dredge up damaging information on President Trump’s rivals in Ukraine, he turned to a native of the former Soviet republic with whom he already had a lucrative business relationship.
WASHINGTON — The effort to pressure Ukraine for political help provoked a heated confrontation inside the White House last summer that so alarmed John R. Bolton, then the national security adviser, that he told an aide to alert White House lawyers, House investigators were told on Monday.
WASHINGTON — A White House official who listened to President Trump’s July phone call with Ukraine’s leader described it as “crazy,” “frightening” and “completely lacking in substance related to national security,” according to a memo written by the whistle-blower at the center of the Ukraine scandal, a C.I.A. officer who spoke to the White House official. 
WASHINGTON — A second intelligence official who was alarmed by President Trump’s dealings with Ukraine is weighing whether to file his own formal whistle-blower complaint and testify to Congress, according to two people briefed on the matter. 
WASHINGTON — Former Representative Pete Sessions, a Texas Republican who is seeking a return to Congress, was caught in the fallout of the Ukraine scandal on Thursday when he was referred to in the indictment of two presidential allies accused of campaign finance allegations.
KIEV, Ukraine — As soon as he got the invitation from Rudolph W. Giuliani, President Trump’s personal lawyer, it was abundantly clear to him what Mr. Trump’s allies were after.
WASHINGTON — A White House national security official who is a decorated Iraq war veteran plans to tell House impeachment investigators on Tuesday that he heard President Trump appeal to Ukraine’s president to investigate one of his leading political rivals, a request the aide considered so damaging to American interests that he reported it to a superior. 
ZOLOTE, Ukraine — Lt. Ivan Molchanets peeked over a parapet of sand bags at the front line of the war in Ukraine. Next to him was an empty helmet propped up to trick snipers, already perforated with multiple holes.
Accusations that President Trump shaped American policy toward Ukraine for his own political gain exploded into a crisis for the White House in September after a whistle-blower complaint. Lawmakers have been examining how Mr. Trump pushed the Ukrainians to investigate the hacking of the Democratic National Committee in 2016 and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son Hunter, a lawyer and former lobbyist. Those questions are now at the center of the House’s impeachment inquiry.
WASHINGTON — Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, tried again on Sunday to back off assertions he made to reporters last week that the Trump administration had held up an aid package to Ukraine because the president wanted the country to investigate Democrats, acknowledging he did not have a “perfect press conference.”
He twice reported concerns about President Trump’s dealings with Ukraine, according to a draft statement.
WASHINGTON — Lt. Col. Alexander S. Vindman, the top Ukraine expert on the National Security Council, told House impeachment investigators on Tuesday that the White House transcript of a July call between President Trump and Ukraine’s president omitted crucial words and phrases, and that his attempts to include them failed, according to three people familiar with the testimony. 
WASHINGTON — A top diplomat told impeachment investigators on Saturday that he repeatedly pressed top State Department leaders, in vain, to defend the United States ambassador to Ukraine in the face of false attacks that he said were orchestrated by the president’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
KIEV, Ukraine — To Democrats who say that President Trump’s decision to freeze $391 million in military aid was intended to bully Ukraine’s leader into carrying out investigations for Mr. Trump’s political benefit, the president and his allies have had a simple response: There was no quid pro quo because the Ukrainians did not know assistance had been blocked. 
William B. Taylor Jr., the United States’ top diplomat in Ukraine, delivered testimony to impeachment investigators on Tuesday that described an effort by President Trump to withhold aid for Ukraine until the country’s leader agreed to investigate Mr. Trump’s political rivals.
MOSCOW — As the formal peace process for the Ukraine war bogged down last month, the country’s president, Volodymyr Zelensky, reached out for a direct meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, an intermediary in the talks revealed on Tuesday.
KIEV, Ukraine — Ukrainians are used to hearing the West call for stability in their country. This fall, the roles have reversed.
When Russia invaded Ukraine in early 2014, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. pressed President Barack Obama to take decisive action, and fast, to make Moscow “pay in blood and money” for its aggression. The president, a Biden aide recalled, was having none of it.
WASHINGTON — The House of Representatives opened historic impeachment hearings on Wednesday and took startling new testimony from a senior American diplomat that further implicated President Trump in a campaign to pressure Ukraine to publicly commit to investigating former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
The origins of the impeachment inquiry engulfing President Trump and his administration go back to the election this spring of a new Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky. Over the next five months, White House emissaries pressured Mr. Zelensky to announce that Ukraine would investigate two matters: Burisma Holdings, a Ukrainian gas company that hired Hunter Biden, the younger son of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and whether Ukraine had meddled in the 2016 American presidential election. 
WASHINGTON — John R. Bolton, President Trump’s former national security adviser, knows about “many relevant meetings and conversations” connected to a pressure campaign on Ukraine that House impeachment investigators have not yet been informed of, his lawyer told lawmakers on Friday.
The story that has emerged in the impeachment hearings is one of extortion and bribery. Donald Trump withheld crucial aid — aid Ukraine needed to defend itself against Russian aggression — and refused to release it unless Ukraine publicly said it was investigating one of his political rivals. Even Republicans understand this; they just think it’s O.K.
WASHINGTON — Representative Devin Nunes, an outspoken defender of President Trump in his impeachment hearings, said on Sunday that reports that he played a role in the effort to dig up damaging information on former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in Ukraine were part of a criminal campaign against him by a “totally corrupt” news media.
WASHINGTON — Internal State Department emails and documents released late Friday further implicate Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in a campaign orchestrated this year by President Trump and his personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani to pressure Ukraine for political favors.
WASHINGTON — Republicans have sought for weeks amid the impeachment inquiry to shift attention to President Trump’s demands that Ukraine investigate any 2016 election meddling, defending it as a legitimate concern while Democrats accuse Mr. Trump of pursuing fringe theories for his benefit.
WASHINGTON — A former White House Russia expert on Thursday sharply denounced a “fictional narrative” embraced by President Trump and his Republican allies that Ukraine, not Russia, interfered in the 2016 election, testifying that the claim was a fabrication by Moscow that had harmed the United States.
KYIV, Ukraine — The International Monetary Fund has agreed to lend $5.5 billion to Ukraine, a move viewed as a stamp of approval for President Volodymyr Zelensky’s anticorruption and economic policies.
WASHINGTON — Eager to repair their country’s fraught relationship with Washington, allies of President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine have met with lobbyists with close ties to the Trump administration, hopeful of creating new channels of communication.
The France-Germany-Russia-Ukraine summit meeting in Paris on Monday, seeking ways to end the war ravaging eastern Ukraine, ended with a few promising words but no progress in reality. Russia, the aggressor, continues to keep the Ukrainian territory it seized in 2014, and Ukraine’s new president, Volodymyr Zelensky, showed he can’t easily be pressured into surrender.
LONDON — For four days in 2018, Veronika Didusenko was hailed as Ukraine’s most beautiful woman.
Throughout the impeachment hearings, American military aid for Ukraine was portrayed as a way for a friendly giant to help a David fend off a staggering Goliath who, if not stopped, would continue his rampage. That’s the big picture. 
President Trump’s re-election campaign has run menacing and misleading ads this fall accusing Joseph R. Biden Jr. of corrupt dealings with Ukraine. Republicans in Congress are scrutinizing Mr. Biden’s son, pressing the State and Treasury Departments for information about his work for a Ukrainian energy company. The president himself has unleashed a stream of unfounded accusations against the Bidens and pushed for them to appear at a potential impeachment trial in the Senate.
“Breaking News: The President of Ukraine has just again announced that President Trump has done nothing wrong with respect to Ukraine and our interactions or calls. If the Radical Left Democrats were sane, which they are not, it would be case over!”— President Trump, in a tweet on Monday morning
KYIV, Ukraine — As deputy foreign minister, it was Olena Zerkal’s job to read incoming diplomatic cables from embassies around the world. One from Washington caught her eye back in July, she recalled: It said the Trump administration had frozen military aid for Ukraine.
MOSCOW — Ukraine swapped dozens of prisoners on Sunday with Russian-backed separatists in the country’s east, the latest sign of a tenuous thaw in relations between Ukraine and Russia.
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s advisers rejected a bid to force his administration to quickly release military assistance for Ukraine early next year, threatening in recent weeks that he would veto must-pass spending legislation if Congress did not remove the directive.
WASHINGTON — William B. Taylor Jr., the top American diplomat in Ukraine who described for Congress and the public what he saw as President Trump’s efforts to pressure Kyiv to go after political rivals, said on Tuesday that he was stepping down from his post. 
WASHINGTON — Rudolph W. Giuliani said on Monday that he provided President Trump with detailed information this year about how the United States ambassador to Ukraine was, in Mr. Giuliani’s view, impeding investigations that could benefit Mr. Trump, setting in motion the ambassador’s recall from her post.
WASHINGTON — About 90 minutes after President Trump held a controversial telephone call with President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine in July, the White House budget office ordered the Pentagon to suspend all military aid that Congress had allocated to Ukraine, according to emails released by the Pentagon late Friday.