The young Ukrainian leader is jammed between the rock of Vladimir Putin’s aggression and the hard place of President Trump’s demands.
In April, Ukrainian voters took a desperate gamble and elected as their president a television performer who played a humble 30-something schoolteacher, Vasyl Petrovych Holoborodko, on a show called “Servant of the People.” On the show, a rant by Mr Holoborodko against Ukraine’s culture of corruption had gone viral, capturing the mood of a young country profoundly frustrated by the state of affairs and ready for change.
The question ever since has been whether Volodymyr Zelensky, the comedian who played Mr Holoborodko and now leads Ukraine, is indeed the idealistic, modest and scrupulously honest corruption-buster whose guiding thought as president is: “One should act in a way that doesn’t evoke shame when looking into children’s eyes. Or their parents’. Or yours.”
The infamous reconstructed transcript of Mr Zelensky’s telephone conversation with President Trump does evoke embarrassment. The Ukrainian enthusiastically demeans himself before Mr Trump, calling him a “great teacher,” joining him in trashing European leaders, bad-mouthing the American ambassador Mr Trump fired for all the wrong reasons and pledging to work on the investigations that Mr Trump was seeking for his own political ends. He also notes that he stayed in one of Mr Trump’s hotels the last time he was in the United States.
But whether that performance was Mr Zelensky revealing his real self or his Holoborodko character colliding with rude reality is a tough call. Ukraine, as Mr Zelensky has noted, is fighting two wars — one against entrenched corruption fueled by a coterie of oligarchs, the other against rebel secessionists in eastern Ukraine propped up by Russia.
Contrary to what Mr Trump and Mr Zelensky said in their phone call, the European Union has been supportive of Ukraine, financially and diplomatically. But only the United States can supply the military muscle Ukraine needs to resist Russia, and in Mr Zelensky’s view, only a meeting with the president of the United States would establish the standing and stature he required.
Mr Zelensky was probably aware that Mr Trump continued to regard President Vladimir Putin of Russia as a soul mate; he may have been equally aware of Mr Trump’s disdain for Ukraine and belief in discredited far-right conspiracy theories that claimed Ukraine meddled in the 2016 election on behalf of Democrats. He may have been apprised of Mr Trump’s comments about Ukrainians after a briefing by the American delegation to Mr Zelensky’s inauguration: “They’re terrible people. They’re all corrupt, and they tried to take me down.”
Furthermore, Mr Trump’s messengers, including his consigliere, Rudolph Giuliani, made clear that Mr Trump’s favor carried a high price tag. And the actor in Mr Zelensky must have recognized that winning Mr Trump over required cringing flattery and total deference.
From Mr Zelensky’s perspective, his approach worked, at least in the short term. Directly after the conversation became known, the White House did release the military assistance for Ukraine that it had withheld, although more likely in response to pressure from Congress than Mr Zelensky’s vague promises.
To recognize Mr Zelensky’s dilemma in the face of a White House incapable of distinguishing between national and personal interests is not to excuse his pandering or his insults to generous European benefactors or well-wishing American diplomats who earnestly sought ways to help his country. In the end, he did not bend to Mr Trump’s envoys’ request that he promise in writing to conduct the investigations of Joe and Hunter Biden and the 2016 campaign. But neither did he get what he most wanted: a high-profile one-on-one meeting with the American president at the White House. At least at home and in Europe, though, he has a lot of apologizing and backtracking to do.
It would only make matters worse for the United States and other Western powers to turn away from his five-month-old administration over an incident in which he was manifestly more victim than accomplice. The greatest beneficiary, then, would be Mr Putin, whose major goals have always been to block the rise of a democratic Ukraine and to undermine the image of liberal democracy.
So far, indications from Ukraine are that Mr Zelensky’s phone call has not turned his people against him, perhaps because it remains unclear to them how he or Mr Holoborodko should have acted when trapped between a rock and a hard place. Ukrainians’ major concern, as presented in local news coverage, is that the United States should continue to support Ukraine in its struggle.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France, both of whom were sideswiped by Mr Zelensky in the call — and both of whom have had to suffer Mr Trump’s ego and Mr Putin’s meddling — have wisely remained silent, and they are likely to set aside whatever annoyance they feel in the long-term interest of helping build a strong and democratic Ukraine.
Members of Congress, whose support for Ukraine has been admirably bipartisan in the past, should also seek to avoid damaging Ukraine’s prospects, or its new administration, as the impeachment process gathers pace in Washington. However clumsy Mr Zelensky appeared in the role of a Trump appeaser, it was not his or Ukraine’s fault that Mr Trump tried so cynically to bend them to his schemes.
}
Ukraine’s Zelensky Fires His Cabinet
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine faulted his ministers for poor performance and for appointing foreigners to company boards, although Western donors have encouraged the practice.
MOSCOW — Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelensky, fired his cabinet of ministers on Wednesday after suggesting in a speech that they had become overly solicitous of Western nations that financially support Ukraine by appointing foreigners to the boards of state companies.
“With all respect to our international partners and with all appreciation for their help, the citizens of our country on governing boards of our companies are feeling like an ethnic minority,” Mr Zelensky said in the speech in Parliament, where a vote was needed to dismiss the cabinet.
Mr Zelensky also faulted the ministers for poor performance but offered praise and thanks that none had become entangled in a corruption scandal in the six months they served.
The shake-up was the most sweeping since Mr Zelensky, a former comedian, won a presidential election last spring on promises to end a six-year war with Russian-backed separatists, and to root out corruption.
Over the summer, President Trump strained American ties with Ukraine by withholding around $400 million in military aid while requesting that Mr Zelensky announce an investigation of unsubstantiated corruption accusations against former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son Hunter Biden. Mr Trump also wanted the Ukrainian government to look into unfounded claims that Ukraine meddled in the 2016 election to help Hillary Clinton.
Those requests led to Mr Trump’s impeachment by the House.
In a more routine form of tying foreign aid to actions by the Ukrainian government, donors including the United States government and the International Monetary Fund have for years endorsed independent appointees to state company boards to tamp down on corruption.
But pushback from Ukrainian politicians against requirements imposed by the I.M.F. has stepped up. A former business partner of Mr Zelensky’s, Ihor Kolomoisky, a banking and media tycoon, has protested the nationalization of his bank, something the I.M.F. supported.
Mr Zelensky asked Parliament to vote on the cabinet’s dismissal in a special session Wednesday evening. Of the 450 members of Parliament, 335 voted in favor.
The prime minister, Oleksiy Honcharuk, who had reportedly clashed with Mr Kolomoisky over management appointments at a state-owned electrical company, was replaced by a former deputy prime minister, Denys Shmyhal, an economist and former governor of the western province of Ivano-Frankivsk.
Mr Shmyhal had previously worked as an executive in the coal and electrical power company of a prominent Ukrainian oligarch, Rinat Akhmetov.
The cabinet shake-up reflects a movement in Ukrainian politics of what Volodymyr Yermolenko, editor in chief at Ukraine World magazine, characterized as oligarchs and former officials being marginalized after the country’s 2014 revolution.
On television stations they control and on social media, these powerful players in internal Ukrainian politics have sharply criticized economic policies encouraged by Western donors, suggesting a plot “to sell out Ukrainian land to the West and destroy the Ukrainian economy,” Mr Yermolenko said.
The shuffle also shows a pivot by Mr Zelensky away from a policy of bringing young professionals with little experience into government, Mr Yermolenko said.
After Mr Zelensky won the presidency last year as a political neophyte, he made a point of hiring aides and ministers similarly unschooled in politics, saying Ukraine needed to turn a new page. He has since acknowledged a need for seasoned administrators.
Among those Mr Zelensky fired on Wednesday was the minister of health, Zoryana Skaletska, who last month volunteered to enter a quarantine center for people evacuated from China and possibly infected with the novel coronavirus.
Ms. Skaletska said she wanted to dispel the stigma from people isolated while awaiting test results. Under the rules, she was required to remain on the site for two weeks after entering and had one day remaining on her quarantine when she was fired.
“Thank you for the courage but in our medicine, courage cannot be a one-off action,” Mr Zelensky said, faulting her for poor service in Ukrainian hospitals.
}
In First Meeting With Putin, Zelensky Plays to a Draw Despite a Bad Hand
The presidents of Ukraine and Russia met face-to-face for the first time, seeking to end the war in their border region. It appeared to be a draw, rather than the Putin domination some had feared.
PARIS — It had the makings of a singularly unequal contest: a former K.G.B. officer and seasoned master of no-holds-barred global intrigue versus a former comedian bereft of any experience in power politics and battered by his country’s bruising encounters with President Trump.
But the first face-to-face meeting on Monday between President Vladimir V. Putin, Russia’s ruler for nearly 20 years, and Volodymyr Zelensky, the president of Ukraine, turned out to be less a walkover for Mr Putin than a draw, with modest progress made on calming five and half years of war in eastern Ukraine.
Mr Zelensky, who has been in office for just six months, said Russia and Ukraine had reached an agreement to exchange all prisoners by the end of the year and to fully implement a cease-fire first agreed to in 2015 but repeatedly broken.
“I would like to have seen more,” said Mr Zelensky, speaking at a joint news conference late Monday in Paris with Mr Putin and the leaders of France and Germany, who were refereeing the meeting.
Mr Zelensky added that it “is vital for Ukraine to restore control of the entire length of its border” with Russia in eastern Ukraine, which is currently controlled by separatist forces backed by Moscow.
At the same news conference, Mr Putin said relations with Ukraine, which had been in a deep freeze since a popular uprising toppled the pro-Russian Ukrainian president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, in Feb. 2014, were now in a “thaw.” But he added that much needed to be done to achieve a stable settlement.
He stressed Russia’s longstanding position that the Russian-speaking regions of eastern Ukraine, under the control of armed rebels supported by Moscow since 2014, should be given special status.
A peace deal reached in the Belarus capital of Minsk in February 2015 required Ukraine to change its laws and Constitution to provide for such a status but, like most elements of the Minsk agreement, this has not been put into effect.
President Emmanuel Macron of France expressed hope that the summit, the first high-level peace talks in three years, had broken years of stalemate, while acknowledging that peace was still not at hand in a war that has killed more than 13,000 combatants and civilians.
“We have not found a magic wand or a silver bullet, but we have relaunched the peace process,” he said. The Paris meeting, he added, was “a very positive step forward.”
The four leaders agreed to meet again in four months.
Mr Zelensky, under mounting pressure at home from nationalists who accuse him of capitulating to Russia, arrived in Paris with limited room to maneuver and far fewer military or political resources to call on than Mr Putin. His previous gestures of good will, notably the withdrawal of Ukrainian troops from the front line, have won no reciprocal steps by Russia or the rebels it supports in the regions of Donetsk and Luhansk.
His position was further weakened by the absence of strong support from the United States, something that Ukraine had previously relied on as it struggles to hold its own on the battlefield against Russian troops — which the Kremlin has insisted are not serving soldiers but merely Russians “on vacation” — as well as armed separatists supported by Moscow.
The United States was never been formally involved in shaping or enacting the Minsk agreement, but under President Barack Obama it played a central role in “lassoing the various sides,” said Alina Polyakova, a fellow in the Center on the United States and Europe at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
Mr Trump has been besieged by impeachment hearings focused on his dealings with Ukraine — specifically, an American delay in delivering promised military aid and the withholding of a much-coveted White House meeting for Mr Zelensky — and by criticism of repeated foreign policy shifts that favor Mr Putin.
Perhaps as a result, the American president has shown little inclination to get involved in the nitty-gritty details of settling the war, telling Mr Zelensky when they met in New York in September: “I really hope you and President Putin get together and can solve your problem.”
Many Trump administration officials who advocated supporting Ukraine in its struggle against Russia have resigned or been sidelined. The State Department’s special envoy for Ukraine and its point man for settling the conflict in the east, Kurt D. Volker, resigned in September.
What Ms. Polyakova described as “U.S. absenteeism” has left the task of mediating a settlement in Europe’s only active war in the hands of Angela Merkel, Germany’s lame-duck chancellor, and Mr Marcon, who has in recent months tilted to a more conciliatory approach toward Russia.
As if to illustrate the imbalance between Russia and Ukraine, at the Élysée Palace, where each president was saluted on Monday by a French honor guard, Mr Zelensky arrived first in a modest gray Renault minivan, followed by Mr Putin in an Aurus, a massive, Russian-made armored limousine. Mr Putin, as he often does, arrived late, but only by a few minutes.
Both leaders had much to gain from the meeting.
Mr Putin desperately wants the West to lift sanctions imposed on Russia in 2014 over its annexation of Crimea and its sponsorship of the separatists. Mr Zelensky, a political neophyte, won a landslide victory in Ukraine’s April presidential election on promises to end the fighting.
Mr Zelensky also had much to lose, but unlike his predecessor, Petro O. Poroshenko, he avoided insulting Mr Putin, whose relations with Ukraine’s previous president were so poisonous the two leaders stopped talking.
“There are a lot of questions we haven’t succeed to solve today, and it’s necessarily to be done in the future,” Mr Zelensky said. “I am sure we will definitely do it, together.”
Rather than annexing the breakaway territory in the east, Russia has made clear that its aim is to keep Ukraine firmly under its influence, not integrated with the West economically, militarily or politically. Mr Putin’s government has indicated that Ukraine could regain at least nominal sovereignty over the region, and control of its eastern border with Russia.
Moscow’s price for such a settlement includes Ukraine staying out of the European Union and NATO, and changing its Constitution to give more authority to regional governments — including those where pro-Russian forces are likely to govern.
Such an agreement would be seen by many Ukrainians as a capitulation to Mr Putin and an infringement on their country’s independence. Yet there is no approach that commands anything resembling majority support in Ukraine — not making the concessions Russia is seeking, not continuing the war, and not ceding control of the territory.
But Mr Zelensky made clear at the news conference that there could be no movement on the political and constitutional changes that Russia wants until security issues, including control of the border, had been settled. He also ruled out conceding to Russia’s previously insistent demand that Ukraine become a federation instead of a unitary state. This, he said, will never happen.
The Minsk agreements mapped out steps to be taken by each side, including elections in rebel-held regions, the return to Ukrainian control of a now-porous border with Russia, greater autonomy for the separatist region, and the disarming of militant groups. But the plan left unclear their sequence, with Russia insisting that political steps come first, while Ukraine wants to begin with those involving security.
Worried that Mr Zelensky might succumb to Mr Putin’s powers of persuasion, as Mr Trump did in Helsinki in July last year, three opposition groups in Ukraine issued a manifesto ahead of the Paris meeting drawing six “red lines” that should not be crossed. They demanded that Mr Zelensky make no concessions to Mr Putin on Ukraine’s “Euro-Atlantic” foreign policy, the status of eastern regions and the timing of elections in territory occupied by Russian-backed separatists.
Early Tuesday morning, protesters gathered near Mr Zelensky’s office in the center of Kyiv, the Ukrainian capital, voicing relief that the Paris meeting had not ended in the “capitulation” they had feared.
Mr Zelensky’s predecessor, Mr Poroshenko, had urged Mr Zelensky to “avoid meeting one on one with Putin,” who he said could never be trusted.
“Don’t trust Putin. Ever and in anything,” he said. “Putin manipulates everything: content, facts, figures, maps, emotions. He hates Ukraine and Ukrainians.”